[move][docs] Add section on pattern matching to Move book (#17776)
MystenLabs/sui: external-crates/move/documentation/book/src/control-flow/pattern-matching.md

# Pattern Matching

> A `match` expression is a powerful control structure that allows you to compare a value against a

Reviewer: ![image](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/assets/1130991/2c67d424-6986-49ab-9fcb-418979aa2f86)

Reviewer: nit: `compare` -> `discriminate`

> series of patterns and then execute code based on which pattern matches first. Patterns can be

Reviewer: Consider italicizing `patterns` and linking to a grammar or the section.

> anything from simple literals to complex structures. As opposed to `if` expressions, which require a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
anything from simple literals to complex, nested struct and enum definitions . As opposed to `if` expressions, which require a
```

> `bool`ean expression, a `match` expression requires a value to be matched against a series of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
test expression of type `bool`expression, `match` expressions take a value of arbitrary type to match against.
```

> anything from simple literals to complex structures. As opposed to `if` expressions, which require a
> `bool`ean expression, a `match` expression requires a value to be matched against a series of
> patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
anything from simple literals to complex, nested struct and enum definitions . As opposed to `if` expressions, which change control flow based on a `bool`-typed test expression, a `match` expression operates over
a value of any type and selects on of many arms.
```

Though consider cutting that last sentence?

> A `match` expression can match either by value, immutable reference, or mutable reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `match` expression can match Move values, immutable references, or mutable references, binding
sub-patterns accordingly.
```

Reviewer: Move this after the example.

A pattern is matched by a value if the value is equal to the pattern, and where variables and

> wildcards (e.g., `x`, `y`, `_`, or `..`) are "equal" to anything.

Reviewer: Move this sentence to the top of the `pattern` section

For example:

```move
fun run(x: u64): u64 {
    match (x) {
        1 => 2,
        2 => 3,
        x => x,
    }
}

run(1); // returns 2
run(2); // returns 3
run(3); // returns 3
run(0); // returns 0

> ```

Reviewer: I'm in favor of a "flashy" first example. If I end up here, I want the csug description: show me all the usage in 1-2 code examples with all the behavior, then take the time to explain. That way if I'm looking for something quick, it's right here at the top of the file.

Author: I like it, let me think about what a good example like that might be up here :)

## Syntax

A `match` takes an expression and a non-empty series of _match arms_ delimited by commas.

> Each match arm consists of a pattern `p`, an optional guard `if (g)` where `g` is an expression of
> type `bool`, followed by an arrow `=>`and an expression `e`. E.g.,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each match arm consists of a pattern `p`, an optional guard `if (g)` where `g` is an expression of
type `bool`, an arrow `=>`, and an arm expression `e`. E.g.,
```

```move
match (expression) {
    pattern1 if (guard_expression) => expression1,
    pattern2 => expression2,
    pattern3 => { expression3, expression4, ... },
}
```

> Match arms are checked in order from top to bottom, and the first match arm whose pattern matches
> (and whose guard expression, if any, returns `true`) will be executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Match arms are checked in order from top to bottom, and the first pattern which matches
(with a guard expression, if present, that evaluates to `true`) will be executed.
```

Note that the series of match arms within a `match` must be exhaustive, meaning that every possible
value of the type being matched must be covered by one of the patterns in the `match`. If the series
of match arms is not exhaustive, the compiler will raise an error.

> ## Patterns

Reviewer: I wonder if it's worth chunking this up a little more, as follows:

```
## Intro

### Pattern Syntax

Just the table and brief descriptions?

## Matching Patterns

<...matching section...>

### Matching Immutable and Mutable References

### Exhaustiveness

### Guards

### Ability Constraints

## Limitations on Patterns

### Mutability Usage

### `..` Usage

## Syntax

Author: I like it!

Patterns are used to match values. Patterns can be

- literals (`true`, `2`, `@0x4`);
- constants (`MyConstant`);
- variables (`a`, `b`, `x`);
- wildcards (`_`);
- constructor patterns (`MyStruct { a, b }`, `MyEnum::Variant(x)`);
- at-patterns `<variable> @ <pattern>`; and

> - or-patterns `<pattern> | <pattern>`.

Reviewer: Table?

// variable pattern
x

// wildcard pattern
_

// constructor pattern that matches `MyEnum::Variant` with the fields `1` and `true`
MyEnum::Variant(1, true)

// constructor pattern that matches `MyEnum::Variant` with the fields `1` and binds the second field's value to `x`
MyEnum::Variant(1, x)

// multi-arity wildcard pattern that matches multiple fields within the `MyEnum::Variant` variant
MyEnum::Variant(..)

// constructor pattern that matches the `x` field of `MyStruct` and binds the `y` field to `other_variable`
MyStruct { x, y: other_variable }

// at-pattern that matches `MyEnum::Variant` and binds the entire value to `x`
x @ MyEnum::Variant(..)

// or-pattern that matches either `MyEnum::Variant` or `MyEnum::OtherVariant`
MyEnum::Variant(..) | MyEnum::OtherVariant(..)

// Same as the above or-pattern, but with explicit wildcards
MyEnum::Variant(_, _) | MyEnum::OtherVariant(_, _)

// or-pattern that matches either `MyEnum::Variant` or `MyEnum::OtherVariant` and binds the u64 field to `x`
MyEnum::Variant(x, _) | MyEnum::OtherVariant(_, x)

// constructor pattern that matches `OtherEnum::V` and if the inner `MyEnum` is `MyEnum::Variant`
OtherEnum::V(MyEnum::Variant(..))
```

> More concisely we have the following grammar for patterns in Move:

Reviewer: We should really collect all the grammar somewhere one day

```bnf
pattern = <literal>
        | <constant>
        | <variable>
        | _

>         | C { inner-pattern, inner-pattern, ... } // where C is a struct or enum variant
>         | C ( inner-pattern, inner-pattern, ... ) // where C is a struct or enum variant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        | C { <variable> : inner-pattern ["," <variable> : inner-pattern]* } // where C is a struct or enum variant
        | C ( inner-pattern ["," inner-pattern]* ... ) // where C is a struct or enum variant
```

        | C                                       // where C is an enum variant
        | <variable> @ top-level-pattern
        | pattern | pattern
inner-pattern = pattern
              | ..

>               | mut pattern

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              | mut <variable>
```

```

> Patterns that contain variables bind them to the value being matched. These variables can then be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Patterns that contain variables bind them to the match subject or subject subcomponent being matched.
These variables can then be
```

used either in any match guard expressions, or on the right-hand side of the match arm. For example:

```move
public struct Wrapper(u64)

fun add_under_wrapper_unless_equal(wrapper: Wrapper, x: u64): u64 {
    match (wrapper) {
        Wrapper(y) if (y == x) => Wrapper(y),
        Wrapper(y) => y + x,
    }
}
add_under_wrapper_unless_equal(Wrapper(1), 2); // returns Wrapper(3)
add_under_wrapper_unless_equal(Wrapper(2), 3); // returns Wrapper(5)
add_under_wrapper_unless_equal(Wrapper(3), 3); // returns Wrapper(3)
```

> Patterns can be nested, and patterns can be or'd with other patterns. The `..` pattern is a special

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Patterns can be nested, and patterns can be combined used the or operator `|` which will succeed if either
pattern matches. The `..` pattern is a special
```

> pattern that matches any number of fields in a struct or enum variant, but it can only occur within

Reviewer: Mention that it can only occur once?

> a constructor pattern, similarly the `mut` pattern can only be used within constructor patterns --

Reviewer: Make `mut` a new sentence.

Author: I think I'll just remove the sentence since we don't really need to go into it here since there aren't any restrictions on it :)

this is used to specify that we want to use the variable mutably on the right-hand-side of the match
arm.

> Patterns are not expressions, but they are nevertheless typed just like expressions. This means that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Patterns are not expressions, but they are nevertheless typed. This means that
```

the type of a pattern must match the type of the value it matches. For example, the pattern `1` has

> type `u64`, the pattern `MyEnum::Variant(1, true)` has type `MyEnum`, and the pattern

Reviewer: `1` has an inferred numerical type

> `MyStruct { x, y }` has type `MyStruct`. If you try to match on an expression which differs from the

Reviewer: Polymorphic one?

type of the pattern in the match this will result in a type error. For example:

```move
match (1) {
    // The `true` literal pattern is of type `bool` so this is a type error.
    true => 1,
    // TYPE ERROR: expected type u64, found bool
    _ => 2,
}
```

Similarly the following would also result in a type error since `MyEnum` and `MyStruct` are
different types:

```
match (MyStruct { x: 0, y: 0 }) {

>     MyEnum::Variant(..) => 1,
>     // TYPE ERROR: expected type MyEnum, found MyStruct

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // TYPE ERROR: expected type MyEnum, found MyStruct
    MyEnum::Variant(..) => 1,
```
To be consistent with above

}
```

Additionally, there are some restrictions on when the `..` pattern, and `mut` pattern modifier can
be used in a pattern.

A `mut` modifier can only occur within a constructor pattern, and cannot be a top-level pattern. The

> value being matched on must be either a mutable reference or by value in order for a `mut` pattern

Reviewer: ```suggestion
value being matched on must be either a mutable reference or value (not immutable reference) in order for a `mut` pattern
```

Author: Great callout, I think I need to revisit the mutability part here in general and update a bunch of stuff, and will update with this in mind :)

> to be used otherwise the compiler will raise an error.

Reviewer: This is confusing. This is a valid match:

```
match (1) {
    mut x => {
        x = x + 10;
        x
    }
}
```

Author: Ah! I was confused then. For some reason I thought I had banned it at the top-level, but you are indeed correct and this is valid.

> to be used otherwise the compiler will raise an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to be used.
```

```move
public struct MyStruct(u64)

fun top_level_mut(x: MyStruct) {
    match (x) {
        mut MyStruct(y) => 1,

>         // ERROR: cannot use mut pattern as a top-level pattern

Reviewer: Decide if the `// ERROR` comment goes above or below and make it consistent across the file

    }
}

fun mut_on_non_mut(x: MyStruct): u64 {
    match (x) {
        // OK! Since `x` is matched by value
        MyStruct(mut y) =>  {
            *y = *y + 1;
            *y
        },
    }
}

fun mut_on_mut(x: &mut MyStruct): u64 {
    match (x) {
        // OK! Since `x` is matched by mutable reference
        MyStruct(mut y) =>  {
            *y = *y + 1;
            *y
        },
    }
}

let mut x = MyStruct(1);
mut_on_non_mut(&mut x); // returns 2
x.0; // returns 2

fun mut_on_immut(x: &MyStruct): u64 {
    match (x) {
        MyStruct(mut y) => ...,
        // ERROR: cannot use mut pattern on a non-mutable reference
    }
}
```

> 

Reviewer: New section?

The `..` pattern an only be used within a constructor pattern and:

> - It can only be used once within the constructor pattern;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It can only be used **once** within the constructor pattern;
```

- In positional arguments it can be used at the beginning, middle, or end of the patterns within the
  constructor;

> - In named arguments it can only be used at the end of the patterns within the constructor;

Reviewer: Consider explaining what `..` does w/r/t inserting wildcards.

        MyStruct2 { .. } => 3,
    }
}
```

## Matching

Prior to delving into the specifics of pattern matching and what it means for a value to "match" a
pattern, let's examine a few examples to provide an intuition for the concept.

```move
fun test_lit(x: u64): u8 {
    match (x) {
        1 => 2,
        2 => 3,
        _ => 4,
    }
}
test_lit(1); // returns 2
test_lit(2); // returns 3
test_lit(3); // returns 4
test_lit(10); // returns 4

fun test_var(x: u64): u64 {
    match (x) {
        y => y,
    }
}
test_var(1); // returns 1
test_var(2); // returns 2
test_var(3); // returns 3
...

const MyConstant: u64 = 10;
fun test_constant(x: u64): u64 {
    match (x) {
        MyConstant => 1,
        _ => 2,
    }
}
test_constant(MyConstant); // returns 1
test_constant(10); // returns 1
test_constant(20); // returns 2

fun test_or_pattern(x: u64): u64 {
    match (x) {
        1 | 2 | 3 => 1,
        4 | 5 | 6 => 2,
        _ => 3,
    }
}
test_or_pattern(1); // returns 1
test_or_pattern(2); // returns 1
test_or_pattern(3); // returns 1
test_or_pattern(4); // returns 2
test_or_pattern(5); // returns 2
test_or_pattern(6); // returns 2
test_or_pattern(7); // returns 3

> test_or_pattern(70); // returns 3

Reviewer: Reduce this list of inputs to 3, 5, and 70

fun test_or_at_pattern(x: u64): u64 {
    match (x) {
        x @ (1 | 2 | 3) => x + 1,
        y @ (4 | 5 | 6) => y + 2,
        z => z + 3,
    }
}
test_or_pattern(1); // returns 2
test_or_pattern(2); // returns 3
test_or_pattern(3); // returns 4
test_or_pattern(4); // returns 6
test_or_pattern(5); // returns 7
test_or_pattern(6); // returns 8
test_or_pattern(7); // returns 10

> test_or_pattern(70); // returns 73

Reviewer: Reduce this list of inputs to `2`, `5`, and `70`

```

The most important thing to note from these examples is that a pattern matches a value if the value
is equal to the pattern, and wildcard/variable patterns match anything. This is true for literals,
variables, and constants. For example, in the `test_lit` function, the value `1` matches the pattern
`1`, the value `2` matches the pattern `2`, and the value `3` matches the wildcard `_`. Similarly,
in the `test_var` function, the value `1` matches the pattern `y` and the value `2` matches the
pattern `y`.

A variable `x` matches (or "equals") any value, and a wildcard `_` matches any value (but only one
value!). Or-patterns are like a logical OR, where a value matches the pattern if it matches any of
patterns in the or-pattern so `p1 | p2 | p3` should be read "matches p1, or p2, or p3".

The most interesting part of pattern matching are constructor patterns. These patterns allow you
inspect and access deep within both structs and enums, and are the most powerful part of pattern
matching. Constructor patterns, coupled with variable bindings, allow you to match on values by
their structure, and pull out the parts of the value you care about for usage on the right-hand side

> of the match arm.

Reviewer: Consider interspersing more test with the examples?

Take the following:

```move
fun f(x: MyEnum) {
    match (x) {
        MyEnum::Variant(1, true) => 1,
        MyEnum::OtherVariant(_, 3) => 2,
        MyEnum::Variant(..) => 3,
        MyEnum::OtherVariant(..) => 4,
}
f(MyEnum::Variant(1, true)); // returns 1
f(MyEnum::Variant(2, true)); // returns 3
f(MyEnum::OtherVariant(false, 3)); // returns 2
f(MyEnum::OtherVariant(true, 3)); // returns 2
f(MyEnum::OtherVariant(true, 2)); // returns 4
```

This is saying that "if `x` is `MyEnum::Variant` with the fields `1` and `true`, then return `1`, if
it is `MyEnum::OtherVariant` with any value for the first field, and `3` for the second, then return
`2`, if it is `MyEnum::Variant` with any fields, then return `3`, and if it is
`MyEnum::OtherVariant` with any fields, then return `4`".

You can also nest patterns, so if I wanted to match either 1, 2, or 10, instead of just matching 1

> in the `MyEnum::Variant` above, you could do so with an or-pattern:

Reviewer: Shifted to second-person

```move
fun f(x: MyEnum) {
    match (x) {
        MyEnum::Variant(1 | 2 | 10, true) => 1,
        MyEnum::OtherVariant(_, 3) => 2,
        MyEnum::Variant(..) => 3,
        MyEnum::OtherVariant(..) => 4,
}
f(MyEnum::Variant(1, true)); // returns 1
f(MyEnum::Variant(2, true)); // returns 1
f(MyEnum::Variant(10, true)); // returns 1
f(MyEnum::Variant(10, false)); // returns 3
```

Additionally, when matching ability restrictions on the value being matched must be followed. In

> particular, you cannot wildcard match on a non-droppable value (when matching by value), and if you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
particular, you cannot wildcard match on a non-droppable _value_ (i.e., when the subject is a value), and if you
```

> Additionally, when matching ability restrictions on the value being matched must be followed. In
> particular, you cannot wildcard match on a non-droppable value (when matching by value), and if you
> bind a non-droppable value to a variable that variable _must_ be used in the match arm. However, if
> you fully destructure the non-droppable value then you can wildcard match on the fields within it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, match bindings are subject to the same ability restrictions as other aspects of Move. In particular, the compiler will signal an error if you try to match a value (i.e., not-reference) without `drop` using a wildcard, as the wildcard expects to drop the value. Similarly, if you bind a non-`drop` value using a binder, it must be used in the right-hand side of the match arm. In addition, if you fully-destruct that value, you have unpacked it, matching the semantics of  [non-`drop` struct unpacking](link). See [ref section] for more details about the `drop` capability. 
```

```move
public struct NonDrop(u64)

fun drop_nondrop(x: NonDrop) {
    match (x) {
        NonDrop(1) => 1,
        _ => 2
        // ERROR: cannot wildcard match on a non-droppable value
    }
}

fun destructure_nondrop(x: NonDrop) {
    match (x) {
        NonDrop(1) => 1,
        NonDrop(_) => 2
        // OK!
    }
}

fun use_nondrop(x: NonDrop): NonDrop {
    match (x) {
        NonDrop(1) => NonDrop(8),
        x => x
    }
}
```

## Exhaustiveness

> The `match` expression in Move must be _exhaustive_; every possible value of the type being matched

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `match` expression in Move must be _exhaustive_: every possible value of the type being matched
```

must be covered by one of the patterns in one of the match's arms. If the series of match arms is
not exhaustive, the compiler will raise an error.

As an example, if we were to match on a `u8` then in order for the match to be exhaustive we would

> need to match on every number from 0 to 255 inclusive, or a wildcard or variable pattern would need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
need to match on _every_ number from 0 to 255 inclusive, or a wildcard or variable pattern would need
```

to be present. Similarly if we were to match on a `bool` then we would need to match on both `true`
and `false`, or a wildcard or variable pattern would need to be present.

> For structs, since there is only one type of constructor for the type, only one constructor needs to
> be matched on, but the fields within the struct need to be matched exhaustively as well. Similarly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For structs, since there is only one type of constructor for the type, only one constructor needs to
be matched, but the fields within the struct need to be matched exhaustively as well. Similarly
```

> for enums, since there are multiple variants that can inhabit the type, each variant needs to be
> matched on, and each field type within each variant needs to be matched in order for the match to be
> considered exhaustive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enums may define multiple variants, and each variant must be matched (including any sub-fields) in order for the match to be
considered exhaustive.
```

    match (x) {
        MyEnum::Variant(1, true) => 1,
        MyEnum::Variant(_, _) => 1,
        MyEnum::OtherVariant(_, 3) => 2,
        // Now exhaustive since this will match all values of MyEnum::OtherVariant
        MyEnum::OtherVariant(..) => 2,

    }
}

fun match_pair_bool(x: Pair<bool>): u8 {
    match (x) {
        Pair(true, true) => 1,
        Pair(true, false) => 1,
        Pair(false, false) => 1,
        // Now exhaustive since this will match all values of Pair<bool>
        Pair(false, true) => 1,
    }
}
```

## Guards

As mentioned above you can add a guard to a match arm by adding an `if` clause after the pattern.
This guard will run _after_ the pattern has been matched but _before_ the expression on the
right-hand-side of the arrow is evaluated. If the guard expression evaluates to `true` then the
expression on the right-hand side of the arrow will be evaluated, if it evaluates to `false` then it
will be considered a "failed match" and the next match arm in the `match` expression will be
checked.

```move
fun match_with_guard(x: u64): u64 {
    match (x) {
        1 if (x == 0) => 1,
        1 => 2,
        _ => 3,
    }
}

match_with_guard(1); // returns 2

> match_with_guard(0); // returns 3

Reviewer: This example is confusing.

```

> Guard expressions have access to the variables bound in the pattern, and can use them in the guard.
> However, it is important to note that variables are by immutable reference only in guards regardless
> of the pattern being matched -- even if there are mutability specifiers on the variable -- or if the
> pattern is being matched by value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Guard expressions can reference variables bound in the pattern during evaluation.
However, note that _variables are only available as immutable reference in guards_ regardless
of the pattern being matched -- even if there are mutability specifiers on the variable or if the
pattern is being matched by value.
```
```

```move
fun incr(x: &mut u64) {
    *x = *x + 1;
}

fun match_with_guard_incr(x: u64): u64 {
    match (x) {
        x if ({ incr(&mut x); x == 1 }) => 1,
        // ERROR:    ^^^ invalid borrow of immutable value
        _ => 2,
    }
}

fun match_with_guard_incr2(x: &mut u64): u64 {
    match (x) {
        x if ({ incr(&mut x); x == 1 }) => 1,
        // ERROR:    ^^^ invalid borrow of immutable value
        _ => 2,
    }
}
```

Additionally, it is important to note any match arms that have guard expressions will not be
considered either for exhaustivity purposes since the compiler has no way of evaluating the guard

> expression statically.

Reviewer: Fine to leave this here a second time IMO

    }
}
test_or_pattern(3); // returns 1
test_or_pattern(5); // returns 2
test_or_pattern(70); // returns 3

fun test_or_at_pattern(x: u64): u64 {
    match (x) {
        x @ (1 | 2 | 3) => x + 1,
        y @ (4 | 5 | 6) => y + 2,
        z => z + 3,
    }
}
test_or_pattern(2); // returns 3
test_or_pattern(5); // returns 7
test_or_pattern(70); // returns 73
```

The most important thing to note from these examples is that a pattern matches a value if the value
is equal to the pattern, and wildcard/variable patterns match anything. This is true for literals,
variables, and constants. For example, in the `test_lit` function, the value `1` matches the pattern
`1`, the value `2` matches the pattern `2`, and the value `3` matches the wildcard `_`. Similarly,
in the `test_var` function, the value `1` matches the pattern `y` and the value `2` matches the
pattern `y`.

A variable `x` matches (or "equals") any value, and a wildcard `_` matches any value (but only one
value!). Or-patterns are like a logical OR, where a value matches the pattern if it matches any of
patterns in the or-pattern so `p1 | p2 | p3` should be read "matches p1, or p2, or p3".

### Matching Constructors

> The most interesting part of pattern matching are constructor patterns. These patterns allow you

Author: 🤣

> inspect and access deep within both structs and enums, and are the most powerful part of pattern

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
inspect and access deep within both structs and enums, and are one of the most powerful parts of pattern
```
nit: unless this is quantifiable, you run the risk of insulting the other parts of pattern matching.

Author: Indeed, I've gotta watch out -- patterns are known to be quite vindictive when insulted like this! 

Thanks for all the suggestions!

matching. Constructor patterns, coupled with variable bindings, allow you to match on values by
their structure, and pull out the parts of the value you care about for usage on the right-hand side
of the match arm.

Take the following:

```move
fun f(x: MyEnum) {
    match (x) {
        MyEnum::Variant(1, true) => 1,
        MyEnum::OtherVariant(_, 3) => 2,
        MyEnum::Variant(..) => 3,
        MyEnum::OtherVariant(..) => 4,
}
f(MyEnum::Variant(1, true)); // returns 1
f(MyEnum::Variant(2, true)); // returns 3
f(MyEnum::OtherVariant(false, 3)); // returns 2
f(MyEnum::OtherVariant(true, 3)); // returns 2
f(MyEnum::OtherVariant(true, 2)); // returns 4
```

> This is saying that "if `x` is `MyEnum::Variant` with the fields `1` and `true`, then return `1`, if

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is saying that "if `x` is `MyEnum::Variant` with the fields `1` and `true`, then return `1`. If
```

it is `MyEnum::OtherVariant` with any value for the first field, and `3` for the second, then return

> `2`, if it is `MyEnum::Variant` with any fields, then return `3`, and if it is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`2`. If it is `MyEnum::Variant` with any fields, then return `3`. Finally, if it is
```
Section correct as is, just prefer shorter sentences when able.

`MyEnum::OtherVariant` with any fields, then return `4`".

> You can also nest patterns, so if you wanted to match either 1, 2, or 10, instead of just matching 1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also nest patterns. So, if you wanted to match either 1, 2, or 10, instead of just matching 1
```
See above comment

> in the `MyEnum::Variant` above, you could do so with an or-pattern:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the previous `MyEnum::Variant`, you could do so with an or-pattern:
```

```move
fun f(x: MyEnum) {
    match (x) {
        MyEnum::Variant(1 | 2 | 10, true) => 1,
        MyEnum::OtherVariant(_, 3) => 2,
        MyEnum::Variant(..) => 3,
        MyEnum::OtherVariant(..) => 4,
}
f(MyEnum::Variant(1, true)); // returns 1
f(MyEnum::Variant(2, true)); // returns 1
f(MyEnum::Variant(10, true)); // returns 1
f(MyEnum::Variant(10, false)); // returns 3
```

### Ability Constraints

Additionally, match bindings are subject to the same ability restrictions as other aspects of Move.

> In particular, the compiler will signal an error if you try to match a value (i.e., not-reference)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In particular, the compiler will signal an error if you try to match a value (not-reference)
```

without `drop` using a wildcard, as the wildcard expects to drop the value. Similarly, if you bind a
non-`drop` value using a binder, it must be used in the right-hand side of the match arm. In

> addition, if you fully-destruct that value, you have unpacked it, matching the semantics of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
addition, if you fully destruct that value, you have unpacked it, matching the semantics of
```

> [non-`drop` struct unpacking](link). See [ref section] for more details about the `drop` capability.

Reviewer 2: Don't forget linking here

```move
public struct NonDrop(u64)

fun drop_nondrop(x: NonDrop) {
    match (x) {
        NonDrop(1) => 1,
        _ => 2
        // ERROR: cannot wildcard match on a non-droppable value
    }
}

fun destructure_nondrop(x: NonDrop) {
    match (x) {
        NonDrop(1) => 1,
        NonDrop(_) => 2
        // OK!
    }
}

fun use_nondrop(x: NonDrop): NonDrop {
    match (x) {
        NonDrop(1) => NonDrop(8),
        x => x
    }
}
```

## Exhaustiveness

The `match` expression in Move must be _exhaustive_: every possible value of the type being matched
must be covered by one of the patterns in one of the match's arms. If the series of match arms is
not exhaustive, the compiler will raise an error. Note that any arm with a guard expression does not

> contribute to match exhaustion, as it may fail to match at runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
contribute to match exhaustion, as it might fail to match at runtime.
```

> As an example, if we were to match on a `u8` then in order for the match to be exhaustive we would

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an example, a match on a `u8` is exhaustive only if
```

> need to match on _every_ number from 0 to 255 inclusive, or a wildcard or variable pattern would

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it matches on _every_ number from 0 to 255 inclusive, unless there is a wildcard or variable pattern present.
```
I might have accidentally changed the meaning here...

Author: Reads correctly to me still!

> need to be present. Similarly if we were to match on a `bool` then we would need to match on both

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similarly, a match on a `bool` would need to match on both
```

> `true` and `false`, or a wildcard or variable pattern would need to be present.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`true` and `false`, unless there is a wildcard or variable pattern present.
```
doubling down

> For structs, since there is only one type of constructor for the type, only one constructor needs to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For structs, because there is only one type of constructor for the type, only one constructor needs to
```

be matched, but the fields within the struct need to be matched exhaustively as well. Conversely,

> enums may define multiple variants, and each variant must be matched (including any sub-fields) in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
enums may define multiple variants, and each variant must be matched (including any sub-fields)
```

> order for the match to be considered exhaustive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for the match to be considered exhaustive.
```

> Since underscores and variables match anything, they count as matching all values of the type they

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because underscores and variables are wildcards that match anything, they count as matching all values of the type they
```

        MyEnum::Variant(1, true) => 1,
        MyEnum::Variant(_, _) => 1,
        MyEnum::OtherVariant(_, 3) => 2,
        // ERROR: not exhaustive as the value `MyEnum::OtherVariant(_, 4)` is not matched.
    }
}

fun match_pair_bool(x: Pair<bool>): u8 {
    match (x) {
        Pair(true, true) => 1,
        Pair(true, false) => 1,
        Pair(false, false) => 1,
        // ERROR: not exhaustive as the value `Pair(false, true)` is not matched.
    }
}
```

These examples can then be made exhaustive by adding a wildcard pattern to the end of the match arm,
or by fully matching on the remaining values:

```move
fun f(x: MyEnum): u8 {
    match (x) {
        MyEnum::Variant(1, true) => 1,
        MyEnum::Variant(_, _) => 1,
        MyEnum::OtherVariant(_, 3) => 2,
        // Now exhaustive since this will match all values of MyEnum::OtherVariant
        MyEnum::OtherVariant(..) => 2,

    }
}

fun match_pair_bool(x: Pair<bool>): u8 {
    match (x) {
        Pair(true, true) => 1,
        Pair(true, false) => 1,
        Pair(false, false) => 1,
        // Now exhaustive since this will match all values of Pair<bool>
        Pair(false, true) => 1,
    }
}
```

## Guards

> As mentioned above you can add a guard to a match arm by adding an `if` clause after the pattern.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As previously mentioned, you can add a guard to a match arm by adding an `if` clause after the pattern.
```

This guard will run _after_ the pattern has been matched but _before_ the expression on the

> right-hand-side of the arrow is evaluated. If the guard expression evaluates to `true` then the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
right hand side of the arrow is evaluated. If the guard expression evaluates to `true` then the
```
I don't think they're neede, but if you really dig dashes, use "right-hand side" instead.

> expression on the right-hand side of the arrow will be evaluated, if it evaluates to `false` then it

Reviewer 2: like here! but if you accept the previous...
```suggestion
expression on the right hand side of the arrow will be evaluated, if it evaluates to `false` then it
```

> will be considered a "failed match" and the next match arm in the `match` expression will be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will be considered a failed match and the next match arm in the `match` expression will be
```
the term match was already put in quotes previously. I don't think adding failed is a reason to reintro those.

checked.

```move
fun match_with_guard(x: u64): u64 {
    match (x) {
        1 if (false) => 1,
        1 => 2,
        _ => 3,
    }
}

match_with_guard(1); // returns 2
match_with_guard(0); // returns 3
```

Guard expressions can reference variables bound in the pattern during evaluation. However, note that
_variables are only available as immutable reference in guards_ regardless of the pattern being
matched -- even if there are mutability specifiers on the variable or if the pattern is being
matched by value.

```move
fun incr(x: &mut u64) {
    *x = *x + 1;
}

fun match_with_guard_incr(x: u64): u64 {
    match (x) {
        x if ({ incr(&mut x); x == 1 }) => 1,
        // ERROR:    ^^^ invalid borrow of immutable value
        _ => 2,
    }
}

fun match_with_guard_incr2(x: &mut u64): u64 {
    match (x) {
        x if ({ incr(&mut x); x == 1 }) => 1,
        // ERROR:    ^^^ invalid borrow of immutable value
        _ => 2,
    }
}
```

Additionally, it is important to note any match arms that have guard expressions will not be

> considered either for exhaustivity purposes since the compiler has no way of evaluating the guard

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
considered either for exhaustivity purposes because the compiler has no way of evaluating the guard
```

expression statically.

## Limitations on Specific Patterns

> There are some restrictions on when the `..` pattern, and `mut` pattern modifier can be used in a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are some restrictions on when the `..` and `mut` pattern modifiers can be used in a
```

pattern.

### Mutability Usage

A `mut` modifier can be placed on a variable pattern to specify that the _variable_ is to be mutated

> in the right-hand side expression of the match arm. Note that since the `mut` modifier only

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the right-hand expression of the match arm. Note that since the `mut` modifier only
```
Dang it, now I'm committed. Had I known it was going to be a thing, I would have just removed the one dash from the original comment. Here, the dash helps but I don't think the "side" is needed.

signifies that the variable is to be mutated, not the underlying data, this can be used on all types
of match (by value, immutable reference, and mutable reference).

Note that the `mut` modifier can only be applied to variables, and not other types of patterns.

```move
public struct MyStruct(u64)

fun top_level_mut(x: MyStruct) {
    match (x) {
        mut MyStruct(y) => 1,
        // ERROR: cannot use mut on a non-variable pattern
    }
}

fun mut_on_immut(x: &MyStruct): u64 {
    match (x) {
        MyStruct(mut y) => {
            y = &(*y + 1);
            *y
        }
    }
}

fun mut_on_value(x: MyStruct): u64 {
    match (x) {
        MyStruct(mut y) =>  {
            *y = *y + 1;
            *y
        },
    }
}

fun mut_on_mut(x: &mut MyStruct): u64 {
    match (x) {
        MyStruct(mut y) =>  {
            *y = *y + 1;
            *y
        },
    }
}

let mut x = MyStruct(1);

mut_on_mut(&mut x); // returns 2
x.0; // returns 2

mut_on_immut(&x); // returns 3
x.0; // returns 2

mut_on_value(x); // returns 3
```

### `..` Usage

> The `..` pattern can only be used within a constructor pattern is a wildcard that matches any number

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `..` pattern can only be used within a constructor pattern as a wildcard that matches any number
```

of fields -- the  
the compiler expands the `..` to inserting `_` in any missing fields in the constructor pattern (if

> any). So `MyStruct(_, _, _)` is the same as `MyStruct(..)`, `MyStruct(1, _, _)` is the same

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
any). So `MyStruct(_, _, _)` is the same as `MyStruct(..)`, `MyStruct(1, _, _)` is the same as
```

> `MyStruct(1, ..)`. Because of this there are some restriction how, and where the `..` pattern can be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`MyStruct(1, ..)`. Because of this, there are some restrictions on how, and where the `..` pattern can be
```
